README.md, before:

# Mastodon Archive Viewer - Zero’s fork

An offline web page to view a [Mastodon](https://joinmastodon.org) archive. It gives a powerful data table to tell you what the composition of all your toots is. There is also a line graph telling you the tooting trend. You can select a period of time to view.

![Screenshot](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/zero-mstd/figure-bed@master/mav-z_screenshot_2.png "Screenshot of this tool")

The branch “exhibition” is for my season’s toots exhibition.

## Features (and changelog):
* original, Dizzy
    * organizes your old posts into a conveniently readable timeline
    * includes media attachments in posts
    * Preserves content warnings/summaries
    * Tries to use the header from the archive as the background
    * Tries to use the avatar from the archive as the avatar next to your old posts
* 11/07/2020, Slashyn
    * fixed a few link problems
    * prettier interface, more similar to mastodon dark theme
    * more details from the toots and user profile added
* 11/08/2020, Slashyn
    * separate page on only toots & media
    * archive column on months and year, stick on the screen when scroll down
    * back to top button when scroll down
* 11/09/2020, Slashyn
    * added click to open image
    * fixed a few visual problems
    * added scroll on archive column
    * added open link on a new tab when click
* 11/10/2020, Slashyn
    * fixed picture display problem
    * modified .sticky column
* 03/24/2021, Zero
    * seperated the css and js file from html
    * delete the original python method
* 04/19/2021, Zero
    * added a date selector, then one can choose a specific period of time to view
* 04/20/2021, Zero
    * fixed the wrong number of “Toots and replies”
    * added a statistical table to show the numbers of all kinds of toots
* 04/22/2021, Zero
    * added a favicon.ico
* 04/23/2021, Zero
    * added more information to the table
    * finished the function of date selector! Hooray!
* 04/29/2021, Zero
    * self-reply is no longer counted as a reply, so they would show in “Toots” column
* 04/30/2021, Zero
    * ask users to load actor.json first
* 05/02/2021, Zero
    * finish the line graph function, thanks to [chart.js](https://www.chartjs.org/)
    * adjusted some color and background-color in the table, one can choose whether show their direct messages' count or not
* 05/06/2021, Zero
    * i18n supported. Can be viewed in Chinese or English now. A shoutout to [this code](https://codesandbox.io/s/ipfeu)
* 08/10/2021, Zero
    * use 🔑 to mark unlisted toot, because 🔓 (unlisted) is not often easy to distinguish from 🔒 (followers-only)
    * fix the problem that `captionText` is not defined: `var captionText = document.getElementById("caption");`
    * no need to unzip `archive-xxx.tar.gz` file anymore, just select directly the archive file in browser, then everything should be fine. This feature benefits from [pako](https://github.com/nodeca/pako) and [js-untar](https://github.com/InvokIT/js-untar), which are greatly appreciated. (and this [code](https://stackoverflow.com/a/65448758) provides an out-of-the-box idea)
    * add the time zone feature, use your system time zone by default, and can be customized.
* 08/11/2021, Zero
    * tell you the fedi sites whose users you usually interacted with. At first I want to show the users you most interacted with, but the toots of [pleroma](https://pleroma.social) users in `likes.json` and `bookmarks.json` don’t have a link formated as `https://<mastodon.example.com>/users/<username>/statuses/<status_id>`, they are like `https://<pleroma.example.com>/objects/<object-id>`. It is not fair to exclude them.
* 08/13/2021, Zero
    * add debug mode
    * give back the individually json file select mode (called “manually” loading mode)
    * fix the bug that not showing all supposed to shown when click “mediatoots” column from “toots” column or vice versa

## Usage:
Simply put, just request your Mastodon archive and download it, save this repo, open the `archive_page.html` web page in your browser and choose your archive, there you go.

### Linux:
First go to your Mastodon instance, request an archive of your toots and uploaded media (Settings - Import and export - Data export), and download your archive. Then:
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/zero-mstd/mav-z.git
$ cd mav-z
$ firefox archive_page.html
```

### Windows:
1. First go to your Mastodon instance, request an archive of your toots and uploaded media (Settings - Import and export - Data export), and download your archive;
2. Open this link <https://github.com/zero-mstd/mav-z/tree/master> in a browser;
3. Hit the green button `Code`;
4. Choose `Download ZIP`;
5. Unzip what you downloaded (should be `mav-z-master.zip`) and enter this folder;
6. Open the `archive_page.html` in your browser;
7. Follow the instructions, choose and open the entire `.tar.gz` archive file you got from the 1st step.

## Troubleshooting:
### If your archive file is too big:
This web page tool can automatically decompress the `archive-xxx.tar.gz` file for you, and it will store all the decompressed files in memory (RAM) temporarily. For reference, my archive file is about 200 MB and it will take 5 seconds to finish all the works.

If your archive file is too big (I don't know, maybe > 1000 MB), your browser may get stuck. In this case, using the **manual mode** is a good idea, i.e., unzipping the archive file manually by yourself. In order to display media files correctly, you should copy and paste your files so that your directory tree is like:

```bash
./
├── actor.json
├── archive_page.html
├── assets
│   ├── avatar_default.png
│   ├── avatar.png
│   ├── chart.js
│   ├── favicon.ico
│   ├── header_default.jpg
│   ├── header.jpg
│   ├── main.js
│   ├── pako.min.js
│   ├── style.css
│   ├── translator.js
│   └── untar.js
├── bookmarks.json
├── likes.json
├── media_attachments
│   └── files
│       ├── ……
│       └── ……
└── outbox.json
```

Now you can open the `archive_page.html` in your browser, choose `manually` in the `Loading mode:` drop-down menu, then follow the instructions, choose and open the four `.josn` files one by one. `actor.json` must be loaded before `outbox.json`, while `bookmarks.json` and `likes.json` are optional.

### Other problems:
If you run into other problems, here's what you can do:

1. Open the `assets/main.js`;
2. Edit it, change the 2nd line to `var debug = 1;`, which means you turn on the debug mode;
3. Open the `archive_page.html` in browser;
4. Press the `F12` button and go to the `console` tab, make sure you have already seen the log “debug mode on”;
5. Now do the process normally;
6. Analyze the log to see if you can find the cause to the problem;
7. Solve it if you can! Feel free to fork or open a PR;
8. If you have no clue, you can contact me via Mastodon or raise a issue. Don't forget to provide your log.

## Next steps:
- [x] separate page on only toots & media
	- [x] make medias easier to view
	- [x] click to open pictures (why `addEventListener click` didn’t work...)
- [ ] prettier interface
- [x] select a period of toots
- [x]  (branch: exhibition) assistant for my season’s exhibition
- [x] open the .tar.gz directly
- [x] the display of vedio problem, width out of box
- [ ] add reverse mode to view all toots
- [ ] total(with_reply_ct) + boost_ct - direct_ct != display_ct, why?
- [x] i18n support. use pure js, with data attributes. see [this link](https://codeburst.io/translating-your-website-in-pure-javascript-98b9fa4ce427)
- [x] more information? for example, the one you liked the most, the one you boost the most…
- [x] add a line graph, maybe?
- [x] time zone problem

## Similar Projects:
- [kit-ty-kate, mastodon-archive-viewer](https://github.com/kit-ty-kate/mastodon-archive-viewer), written in [OCaml](https://ocaml.org/), need [OPAM](https://opam.ocaml.org/) installed.
- [nuklearfiziks, mastodon-archive-tool](https://observablehq.com/@nuklearfiziks/mastodon-archive-tool). It runs in a browser and does not need to download anything.
- [Yuzuki Aida, Mastodon-Archive-Viewer](https://github.com/nzws/Mastodon-Archive-Viewer). Quite clean but not completely offline. Need to choose `actor.json` and `outbox.json` respectively, no support to media (images or vedios).
- [Poga, ActivityPub to CSV](https://poga.github.io/activitypub2csv/). Turn `outbox.json` file into `.csv` file then can be viewed in excel or other softwares.

---

Open to suggestions. Chinese and English ok.

Commit message:

new plan about optimize memory

README.md, after:

# Mastodon Archive Viewer - Zero’s fork

An offline web page to view a [Mastodon](https://joinmastodon.org) archive. It gives a powerful data table to tell you what the composition of all your toots is. There is also a line graph telling you the tooting trend. You can select a period of time to view.

![Screenshot](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/zero-mstd/figure-bed@master/mav-z_screenshot_2.png "Screenshot of this tool")

The branch “exhibition” is for my season’s toots exhibition.

## Features (and changelog):
* original, Dizzy
    * organizes your old posts into a conveniently readable timeline
    * includes media attachments in posts
    * Preserves content warnings/summaries
    * Tries to use the header from the archive as the background
    * Tries to use the avatar from the archive as the avatar next to your old posts
* 11/07/2020, Slashyn
    * fixed a few link problems
    * prettier interface, more similar to mastodon dark theme
    * more details from the toots and user profile added
* 11/08/2020, Slashyn
    * separate page on only toots & media
    * archive column on months and year, stick on the screen when scroll down
    * back to top button when scroll down
* 11/09/2020, Slashyn
    * added click to open image
    * fixed a few visual problems
    * added scroll on archive column
    * added open link on a new tab when click
* 11/10/2020, Slashyn
    * fixed picture display problem
    * modified .sticky column
* 03/24/2021, Zero
    * seperated the css and js file from html
    * delete the original python method
* 04/19/2021, Zero
    * added a date selector, then one can choose a specific period of time to view
* 04/20/2021, Zero
    * fixed the wrong number of “Toots and replies”
    * added a statistical table to show the numbers of all kinds of toots
* 04/22/2021, Zero
    * added a favicon.ico
* 04/23/2021, Zero
    * added more information to the table
    * finished the function of date selector! Hooray!
* 04/29/2021, Zero
    * self-reply is no longer counted as a reply, so they would show in “Toots” column
* 04/30/2021, Zero
    * ask users to load actor.json first
* 05/02/2021, Zero
    * finish the line graph function, thanks to [chart.js](https://www.chartjs.org/)
    * adjusted some color and background-color in the table, one can choose whether show their direct messages' count or not
* 05/06/2021, Zero
    * i18n supported. Can be viewed in Chinese or English now. A shoutout to [this code](https://codesandbox.io/s/ipfeu)
* 08/10/2021, Zero
    * use 🔑 to mark unlisted toot, because 🔓 (unlisted) is not often easy to distinguish from 🔒 (followers-only)
    * fix the problem that `captionText` is not defined: `var captionText = document.getElementById("caption");`
    * no need to unzip `archive-xxx.tar.gz` file anymore, just select directly the archive file in browser, then everything should be fine. This feature benefits from [pako](https://github.com/nodeca/pako) and [js-untar](https://github.com/InvokIT/js-untar), which are greatly appreciated. (and this [code](https://stackoverflow.com/a/65448758) provides an out-of-the-box idea)
    * add the time zone feature, use your system time zone by default, and can be customized.
* 08/11/2021, Zero
    * tell you the fedi sites whose users you usually interacted with. At first I want to show the users you most interacted with, but the toots of [pleroma](https://pleroma.social) users in `likes.json` and `bookmarks.json` don’t have a link formated as `https://<mastodon.example.com>/users/<username>/statuses/<status_id>`, they are like `https://<pleroma.example.com>/objects/<object-id>`. It is not fair to exclude them.
* 08/13/2021, Zero
    * add debug mode
    * give back the individually json file select mode (called “manually” loading mode)
    * fix the bug that not showing all supposed to shown when click “mediatoots” column from “toots” column or vice versa

## Usage:
Simply put, just request your Mastodon archive and download it, save this repo, open the `archive_page.html` web page in your browser and choose your archive, there you go.

### Linux:
First go to your Mastodon instance, request an archive of your toots and uploaded media (Settings - Import and export - Data export), and download your archive. Then:
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/zero-mstd/mav-z.git
$ cd mav-z
$ firefox archive_page.html
```

### Windows:
1. First go to your Mastodon instance, request an archive of your toots and uploaded media (Settings - Import and export - Data export), and download your archive;
2. Open this link <https://github.com/zero-mstd/mav-z/tree/master> in a browser;
3. Hit the green button `Code`;
4. Choose `Download ZIP`;
5. Unzip what you downloaded (should be `mav-z-master.zip`) and enter this folder;
6. Open the `archive_page.html` in your browser;
7. Follow the instructions, choose and open the entire `.tar.gz` archive file you got from the 1st step.

## Troubleshooting:
### If your archive file is too big:
This web page tool can automatically decompress the `archive-xxx.tar.gz` file for you, and it will store all the decompressed files in memory (RAM) temporarily. For reference, my archive file is about 200 MB and it will take 5 seconds to finish all the works.

If your archive file is too big (I don't know, maybe > 1000 MB), your browser may get stuck. In this case, using the **manual mode** is a good idea, i.e., unzipping the archive file manually by yourself. In order to display media files correctly, you should copy and paste your files so that your directory tree is like:

```bash
./
├── actor.json
├── archive_page.html
├── assets
│   ├── avatar_default.png
│   ├── avatar.png
│   ├── chart.js
│   ├── favicon.ico
│   ├── header_default.jpg
│   ├── header.jpg
│   ├── main.js
│   ├── pako.min.js
│   ├── style.css
│   ├── translator.js
│   └── untar.js
├── bookmarks.json
├── likes.json
├── media_attachments
│   └── files
│       ├── ……
│       └── ……
└── outbox.json
```

Now you can open the `archive_page.html` in your browser, choose `manually` in the `Loading mode:` drop-down menu, then follow the instructions, choose and open the four `.josn` files one by one. `actor.json` must be loaded before `outbox.json`, while `bookmarks.json` and `likes.json` are optional.

### Other problems:
If you run into other problems, here's what you can do:

1. Open the `assets/main.js`;
2. Edit it, change the 2nd line to `var debug = 1;`, which means you turn on the debug mode;
3. Open the `archive_page.html` in browser;
4. Press the `F12` button and go to the `console` tab, make sure you have already seen the log “debug mode on”;
5. Now do the process normally;
6. Analyze the log to see if you can find the cause to the problem;
7. Solve it if you can! Feel free to fork or open a PR;
8. If you have no clue, you can contact me via Mastodon or raise a issue. Don't forget to provide your log.

## Next steps:
- [x] separate page on only toots & media
	- [x] make medias easier to view
	- [x] click to open pictures (why `addEventListener click` didn’t work...)
- [ ] prettier interface
- [x] select a period of toots
- [x]  (branch: exhibition) assistant for my season’s exhibition
- [x] open the .tar.gz directly
- [x] the display of vedio problem, width out of box
- [ ] add reverse mode to view all toots
- [ ] total(with_reply_ct) + boost_ct - direct_ct != display_ct, why?
- [x] i18n support. use pure js, with data attributes. see [this link](https://codeburst.io/translating-your-website-in-pure-javascript-98b9fa4ce427)
- [x] more information? for example, the one you liked the most, the one you boost the most…
- [x] add a line graph, maybe?
- [x] time zone problem
- [ ] optimize the ram usage, take care about memory leaks/bloat, see [this article](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/memory-problems/)

## Similar Projects:
- [kit-ty-kate, mastodon-archive-viewer](https://github.com/kit-ty-kate/mastodon-archive-viewer), written in [OCaml](https://ocaml.org/), need [OPAM](https://opam.ocaml.org/) installed.
- [nuklearfiziks, mastodon-archive-tool](https://observablehq.com/@nuklearfiziks/mastodon-archive-tool). It runs in a browser and does not need to download anything.
- [Yuzuki Aida, Mastodon-Archive-Viewer](https://github.com/nzws/Mastodon-Archive-Viewer). Quite clean but not completely offline. Need to choose `actor.json` and `outbox.json` respectively, no support to media (images or vedios).
- [Poga, ActivityPub to CSV](https://poga.github.io/activitypub2csv/). Turn `outbox.json` file into `.csv` file then can be viewed in excel or other softwares.

---

Open to suggestions. Chinese and English ok.
